# PrisonersDilemma
This is the main implementation of the Prisoner's Dilemma using threads and multicore programming techniques

ABSTRACT
--------
Every piece of modern technology runs an operating system to perform the thousands of tasks we ask of it. These tasks run simultaneously in the operating system to provide the everyday person a level of convenience and efficiency society has come to expect from a Fitbit, smart fridge, or self-driving car. Undergraduate Computer Science students at Kutztown University learn about the importance of operating systems relatively late in their academic careers. These ideas can be confusing to some, so it is of paramount importance we equip the next generation of programmers with the necessary knowledge to take full advantage of these hidden governing bodies of technology.
This Honors Program Capstone project focuses on the implementation of Java’s built-in multithread programming libraries to solve various problems relating to operating systems to serve as examples in related courses. Moreover, it discusses the multifaceted nature of modern operating systems and how these examples will teach undergraduate Computer Science students to think deeper about the underlying processes. Additional research into topics such as reading documentation, manual code tracing, output analysis, was conducted to fully grasp the material.
This project also examines the Prisoner’s Dilemma state machine written by Dr. Parson in the “CSC343 – Operating Systems” course offered by Kutztown. The nature of “state machines” to demonstrate concurrency, locking, and other similar concepts are dissected, and reverse engineered in a way familiar to most undergraduate students. Using Java is beneficial because it is an easy-to-learn and ready-to-use programming language students can easily download development environments for to play around with its syntax and structure. Using this language and subsequent examples procured from this Capstone project, an undergraduate student can, for instance, trace a function call to create a thread to see how it changes the flow of the program in memory. Problems such as the Prisoner’s Dilemma showcase “inter-process communication”, or how two programs use shared memory space to communicate with each other.
Included in this Capstone project is source code acting as the main focus of the project, output files showcasing each step of the Prisoner’s Dilemma games ran, and explanations of how to walk students through these algorithms. Diagrams from CSC343 are utilized as reference to aid in design. Lastly, all the new things learned from the completion of this Capstone through the development process, debugging stages, collaborative work, and more will be shared at The 22nd Annual Undergraduate Research and Creativity Virtual Conference hosted by Alvernia University. A presentation about this Capstone project will summarize the whole process and its effect on my personal development and education at Kutztown.
